src/collections/guides/being-flexible-spontaneous-and-creative.md, before:

---
title: Being flexible, spontaneous, and creative
date: 2024-03-21T16:24:00.122Z
order: 8
category: doing
description: Flexibility and adaptability are essential traits for facilitators
  working with children with disabilities, as unexpected behaviors may require
  thoughtful and spontaneous responses to ensure a positive and meaningful
  collaborative experience for all participants.
overviewSection: Being flexible, spontaneous, and creative is crucial for
  facilitating workshops with children with disabilities. Unexpected behaviors
  may arise, requiring adaptable responses to ensure a positive experience.
  Focus on main goals, observe room dynamics, and provide varied challenges. Be
  receptive to participants' needs and modify activities accordingly, fostering
  a safe and accepting environment for all.
---
## Description

Flexibility and adaptability are essential traits for facilitators working with children with disabilities, as unexpected behaviors may require thoughtful and spontaneous responses to ensure a positive and meaningful collaborative experience for all participants. Unforeseen situations and unexpected behaviors may arise during the workshop. The facilitation team needs to be prepared to embrace spontaneity and their plans accordingly. This might involve introducing impromptu activities or modifying existing ones to better suit the present or stopping the session altogether and rescheduling for another time.  

## Suggestions

### Create a Safe and Accepting Environment

* Focus on your main goals or objectives instead of specific tasks. Creating session agendas that consider key design stages gives you more flexibility and can help you achieve your goals without being tied to particular tasks.
* Nurture a safe and accepting environment for all participants to freely express themselves. Foster a culture of understanding and respect, where ideas are celebrated and differences are embraced. For example apply a Yes, and… approach, you can learn more about this strengths-based tactic here: [Link](https://www.thisisservicedesigndoing.com/methods/yes-and-warm-up)

### Be Observant of Room Dynamics

* Stay attuned to the energy and interactions within the room. Observe how participants interact with one another and with facilitators. If you sense any tensions or frictions, be open to rearranging groups and facilitators to foster better group dynamics and engagement.
* Be mindful of each child's level of participation. Some participants may be more reserved and prefer limited engagement, while others may require encouragement to share their ideas. Engage with all participants on an individual basis and encourage their contributions in a way that respects their comfort level.

### Be Responsive to Participants' Needs

* Remain receptive to the participants' needs and abilities. If you find that certain activities are not accessible or engaging for some children, be ready to modify the approach on the spot. Assign facilitators and educators to support individual participants in a way that accommodates their unique requirements.
* Facilitators can keep fast doers engaged with extra challenges and offer optional activities, and provide support to slower participants. Maintaining a balanced pace and celebrating individual progress creates a more collaborative and supportive environment for all participants.

Commit message:

chore(cms): update "src/collections/guides/being-flexible-spontaneous-and-creative.md" (#122)
Automatically generated. Merged on Decap CMS.

src/collections/guides/being-flexible-spontaneous-and-creative.md, after:

---
title: Being flexible, spontaneous, and creative
date: 2024-03-21T16:24:00.122Z
order: 8
category: doing
description: Flexibility and adaptability are essential traits for facilitators
  working with children with disabilities, as unexpected behaviors may require
  thoughtful and spontaneous responses to ensure a positive and meaningful
  collaborative experience for all participants.
metaImage: /assets/uploads/design-activity-using-the-prototype_hua147f5f7751a23f9d805133cfcf6212e_2686676_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg
metaImageAlt: "Three robots painting geometric shapes on the floor. "
overviewSection: Being flexible, spontaneous, and creative is crucial for
  facilitating workshops with children with disabilities. Unexpected behaviors
  may arise, requiring adaptable responses to ensure a positive experience.
  Focus on main goals, observe room dynamics, and provide varied challenges. Be
  receptive to participants' needs and modify activities accordingly, fostering
  a safe and accepting environment for all.
exampleSection: >-
  In many of our collaborative sessions for the [Weavly](https://weavly.org/)
  project, we frequently encountered situations that required us to be flexible
  and adapt our plans on the fly to accommodate the needs of students, teachers,
  or the school. For instance, there were occasions when students had to leave
  earlier for other school activities, prompting us to adjust our lesson plans
  while still ensuring meaningful engagement and achieving our session goals.


  ![Students on mobility devices using their laptops to create a program to move robots on the floor to draw geommetric shapes. etric ](/assets/uploads/design-activity-using-the-prototype_hubcbd8cb1fbfe2b60d025736e0186a09d_2552060_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg "Students on mobility devices gathered around a floor level activity, trying to ove robots with programs they have built in Weavly. ")


  Moreover, when introducing new mediums and creative tools to children, there were instances that teachers and caregivers were not sure about how students would respond to such new experiences. As a result, we encountered some situations where the activity wasn't accessible to all students. For example, some students struggled with navigating iPads, while others found floor-level activities challenging due to mobility devices. In response, we made real-time adjustments such as streaming activities on a laptop for better visibility, repositioning monitors for easier access, or providing additional support tools like straps. Each of these moments provided valuable learning experiences, prompting us to continuously improve and make subsequent sessions more inclusive and accessible for all participants.
---
## Description

Flexibility and adaptability are essential traits for facilitators working with children with disabilities, as unexpected behaviors may require thoughtful and spontaneous responses to ensure a positive and meaningful collaborative experience for all participants. Unforeseen situations and unexpected behaviors may arise during the workshop. The facilitation team needs to be prepared to embrace spontaneity and their plans accordingly. This might involve introducing impromptu activities or modifying existing ones to better suit the present or stopping the session altogether and rescheduling for another time.  

## Suggestions

### Create a Safe and Accepting Environment

Focus on your main goals or objectives instead of specific tasks. Creating session agendas that consider key design stages gives you more flexibility and can help you achieve your goals without being tied to particular tasks.

Nurture a safe and accepting environment for all participants to freely express themselves. Foster a culture of understanding and respect, where ideas are celebrated and differences are embraced. For example apply a Yes, and… approach, you can learn more about this strengths-based tactic here: [Link](https://www.thisisservicedesigndoing.com/methods/yes-and-warm-up)

### Be Observant of Room Dynamics

Stay attuned to the energy and interactions within the room. Observe how participants interact with one another and with facilitators. If you sense any tensions or frictions, be open to rearranging groups and facilitators to foster better group dynamics and engagement.

Be mindful of each child's level of participation. Some participants may be more reserved and prefer limited engagement, while others may require encouragement to share their ideas. Engage with all participants on an individual basis and encourage their contributions in a way that respects their comfort level.

### Be Responsive to Participants' Needs

Remain receptive to the participants' needs and abilities. If you find that certain activities are not accessible or engaging for some children, be ready to modify the approach on the spot. Assign facilitators and educators to support individual participants in a way that accommodates their unique requirements.

Facilitators can keep fast doers engaged with extra challenges and offer optional activities, and provide support to slower participants. Maintaining a balanced pace and celebrating individual progress creates a more collaborative and supportive environment for all participants.
