src/collections/guides/creating-your-team.md, before:

---
title: Creating your team
date: 2024-02-28T16:46:31.470Z
order: 2
category: planning
description: Coordinating a co-design workshop with kids involves careful
  consideration of who should be present to create a comfortable and inclusive
  space.
examplesSection: TBD
---
## Description

Running a co-design workshop with kids often requires multiple people to be involved. Considering who else should be in the room is crucial to create a comfortable and inclusive space for the children. Here are a few different groups that you may need to be present to run a successful collaborative session with children with disabilities:

**Facilitators:** Depending on the number of children and their abilities, it may be necessary to have multiple facilitators available to engage each child during generative activities and idea-sharing. It’s usually helpful to have one facilitator per 2-3 children. 

**Documentation Team:** Including individuals to take notes, take photos or videos, record the session, and document kids’ general experiences and interactions during the session is essential for capturing valuable insights.

**Parents and Caregivers:** Parents, guardians, teachers, or personal assistants may already be present during the sessions, providing essential support and comfort to the children. 

It's essential to consider the balance of power dynamics in the room. Sometimes, the presence of too many adults can make the children feel observed and controlled, inhibiting their natural expression and participation.

## Suggestions

### Minimize new adults

Encourage your team to multi-task to minimize the number of people needed for an activity, for example you can take notes while leading the session. Or set up a camera in a corner to record the session with no further involvement from the facilitators. 

### Include familiar facilitators

When multiple facilitators are needed, ensure that the children are already familiar with them through prior interactions. Whenever possible, involve teachers, caregivers, or parents in the facilitation process. Their presence can offer support, allowing facilitators to take a step back, document the session, and provide additional assistance to the participants.

Commit message:

feat: add ul, ol, and images to CMS
feat: make example field optional
feat: support external links or files for supportive material
feat: hide description from cards
feat: add overview and display in sidebar

src/collections/guides/creating-your-team.md, after:

---
title: Creating your team
date: 2024-02-28T16:46:31.470Z
order: 2
category: planning
description: Coordinating a co-design workshop with kids involves careful
  consideration of who should be present to create a comfortable and inclusive
  space.
overviewSection: Coordinating a co-design workshop with kids involves careful
  consideration of who should be present to create a comfortable and inclusive
  space.
---
## Description

Running a co-design workshop with kids often requires multiple people to be involved. Considering who else should be in the room is crucial to create a comfortable and inclusive space for the children. Here are a few different groups that you may need to be present to run a successful collaborative session with children with disabilities:

**Facilitators:** Depending on the number of children and their abilities, it may be necessary to have multiple facilitators available to engage each child during generative activities and idea-sharing. It’s usually helpful to have one facilitator per 2-3 children. 

**Documentation Team:** Including individuals to take notes, take photos or videos, record the session, and document kids’ general experiences and interactions during the session is essential for capturing valuable insights.

**Parents and Caregivers:** Parents, guardians, teachers, or personal assistants may already be present during the sessions, providing essential support and comfort to the children. 

It's essential to consider the balance of power dynamics in the room. Sometimes, the presence of too many adults can make the children feel observed and controlled, inhibiting their natural expression and participation.

## Suggestions

### Minimize new adults

Encourage your team to multi-task to minimize the number of people needed for an activity, for example you can take notes while leading the session. Or set up a camera in a corner to record the session with no further involvement from the facilitators. 

### Include familiar facilitators

When multiple facilitators are needed, ensure that the children are already familiar with them through prior interactions. Whenever possible, involve teachers, caregivers, or parents in the facilitation process. Their presence can offer support, allowing facilitators to take a step back, document the session, and provide additional assistance to the participants.
