src/collections/guides/facilitating-positive-interactions-among-kids.md, before:

---
title: Facilitating positive interactions among kids
date: 2024-02-28T16:50:40.270Z
order: 3
category: planning
description: Planning a co-design session with children with disabilities
  requires consideration of contextual, environmental, and social factors
  affecting their interactions.
examplesSection: TBD
---
## Description

In collaborative workshops, children often interact with others, whether through individual or group activities. However, some kids' needs and preferences may conflict with those of their peers, leading to anxiety or disengagement. In certain cases, involuntary expressions like specific noises or body movements can disrupt the session's flow and affect others' comfort. As you plan a co-design session with children with disabilities, it is important to consider various contextual, environmental, and social factors that may impact a child’s interaction with others.  

**Day of the Week:** Children may face challenges on certain days, for example on Mondays, most children need to readjust to the school environment after spending time at home with their families.

**Time of the Day:** Kids often show more willingness to engage/participate in the morning, displaying more fatigue or reduced interest as the day progresses. Children may be feeling very hungry just before lunch and their interest may drop. In addition, right after lunch they are often feeling either a bit sleepy, or very high in extra energy.

**Transition to the workshop:** Activities done before the session, such as returning from lunch, high-energy physical exercises, or calming reading sessions, can impact their behavior and engagement.

**Other activities around the session:** Some children with disabilities have busy lives, such as having therapist visits, adult assisted personal care routines, or doctors appointments. It is important to be aware of what other activities wrap around the session.



## Suggestions

### Get to Know the Kids

Before the session, spend time getting to know each child's behavior under different circumstances. Talk to teachers and parents to gather insights about each child and any potential triggers. Enquire about their access needs and any accommodation they might need in a collaborative setting.

### Consider their daily plan

Consult with the teachers and parents to find a time that works best for the children based on their daily routines at home and school. 

### Plan Group Activities Thoughtfully

Consult with teachers, care givers, and parents to understand the dynamics between the children. Identify who gets along well and who might prefer specific pairings or seating arrangements.

Commit message:

feat: add ul, ol, and images to CMS
feat: make example field optional
feat: support external links or files for supportive material
feat: hide description from cards
feat: add overview and display in sidebar

src/collections/guides/facilitating-positive-interactions-among-kids.md, after:

---
title: Facilitating positive interactions among kids
date: 2024-02-28T16:50:40.270Z
order: 3
category: planning
description: Planning a co-design session with children with disabilities
  requires consideration of contextual, environmental, and social factors
  affecting their interactions.
overviewSection: Planning a co-design session with children with disabilities
  requires consideration of contextual, environmental, and social factors
  affecting their interactions.
---
## Description

In collaborative workshops, children often interact with others, whether through individual or group activities. However, some kids' needs and preferences may conflict with those of their peers, leading to anxiety or disengagement. In certain cases, involuntary expressions like specific noises or body movements can disrupt the session's flow and affect others' comfort. As you plan a co-design session with children with disabilities, it is important to consider various contextual, environmental, and social factors that may impact a child’s interaction with others.  

**Day of the Week:** Children may face challenges on certain days, for example on Mondays, most children need to readjust to the school environment after spending time at home with their families.

**Time of the Day:** Kids often show more willingness to engage/participate in the morning, displaying more fatigue or reduced interest as the day progresses. Children may be feeling very hungry just before lunch and their interest may drop. In addition, right after lunch they are often feeling either a bit sleepy, or very high in extra energy.

**Transition to the workshop:** Activities done before the session, such as returning from lunch, high-energy physical exercises, or calming reading sessions, can impact their behavior and engagement.

**Other activities around the session:** Some children with disabilities have busy lives, such as having therapist visits, adult assisted personal care routines, or doctors appointments. It is important to be aware of what other activities wrap around the session.



## Suggestions

### Get to Know the Kids

Before the session, spend time getting to know each child's behavior under different circumstances. Talk to teachers and parents to gather insights about each child and any potential triggers. Enquire about their access needs and any accommodation they might need in a collaborative setting.

### Consider their daily plan

Consult with the teachers and parents to find a time that works best for the children based on their daily routines at home and school. 

### Plan Group Activities Thoughtfully

Consult with teachers, care givers, and parents to understand the dynamics between the children. Identify who gets along well and who might prefer specific pairings or seating arrangements.
