src/collections/guides/fostering-a-comfortable-environment.md, before:

---
title: Fostering a comfortable environment
date: 2024-02-28T16:09:09.807Z
order: 1
category: planning
description: Creating a comfortable environment is crucial to encourage active
  participation from children with disabilities.
examplesSection: TBD
supportiveMaterials:
  - label: Video created for children to explain the role of a researcher
    file: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/ioe/departments-and-centres/departments/culture-communication-and-media/what-researcher-video-children
  - label: More information about social stories and how to use them
    file: https://therapyworks.com/blog/language-development/home-tips/using-social-stories-improve-childs-development/
---
## Description

In any direct interaction with children, creating a comfortable and trusting environment is essential for their participation. This is no different for children with disabilities. Getting to know you and any new team members beforehand can significantly impact how they feel around you and their willingness to share their ideas.

Building trust with the participating children involves recognizing and valuing their interests and concerns, being sincere, reliable, and honest about what we can and cannot do. This involves engaging in structured, semi-structured, or unstructured activities before your main engagement. During these activities the designer/researcher can adjust their role based on the situation and the needs of the children in their spaces. 

Identifying settings where the child already feels freedom/comfort in expressing themselves is crucial for their engagement. A 'setting' can include a particular physical environment/location or a particular peer or an adult who creates that supportive environment for the child - wherever they may be. By collaborating with parents and teachers, you can identify these settings for each child. 

## Suggestions

### Assisting Teachers

Offer your assistance to teachers during a couple of classes, and engage alongside the children. Your presence helps the children become more comfortable with you over time.

### Shadowing Classes

Request permission to shadow a class for a week or several days. This extended interaction allows the children to get used to your presence and feel more relaxed.

### Recognizing the child’s preferred modes of communication

Some children prefer alternative modes of communication to speech, be it touch, AAC, picture cards, or even gestures. Get to know the child’s preferred modes of communication and set aside time to explicitly agree on the modes that they use. For example, understanding how they express yes/no, or how they signal agreement, discomfort, not understanding, tiredness, pain, etc.

### Sharing welcome videos or pictures

Prepare a short video, or a series of picture cards that feature you and any other facilitators to introduce yourselves and share that you will be meeting them soon to work on a cool project. Sharing social stories with children ahead of time can also help them better prepare for the engagement. 

### Getting to know daily routines

Collaborate with the family in getting to know the children’s daily routines. Knowledge of the family’s activities will help you understand the child’s schedule, which you could even reference when communicating with the child. 

### Being present with the children

Take some time to show your materials—prototypes, cameras, toys—to the child and let them explore these items. Allowing the child to know your materials will help them feel safe with unfamiliar items and activities to come.

Commit message:

feat: add ul, ol, and images to CMS (#65)
feat: make example field optional
feat: support external links or files for supportive material
feat: hide description from cards
feat: add overview and display in sidebar

src/collections/guides/fostering-a-comfortable-environment.md, after:

---
title: Fostering a comfortable environment
date: 2024-02-28T16:09:09.807Z
order: 1
category: planning
description: Creating a comfortable environment is crucial to encourage active
  participation from children with disabilities.
overviewSection: "Creating a comfortable environment is crucial to encourage
  active participation from children with disabilities. "
supportiveMaterials:
  - label: Video created for children to explain the role of a researcher
    type: link
    link: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/ioe/departments-and-centres/departments/culture-communication-and-media/what-researcher-video-children
  - label: More information about social stories and how to use them
    type: link
    link: https://therapyworks.com/blog/language-development/home-tips/using-social-stories-improve-childs-development/
---
## Description

In any direct interaction with children, creating a comfortable and trusting environment is essential for their participation. This is no different for children with disabilities. Getting to know you and any new team members beforehand can significantly impact how they feel around you and their willingness to share their ideas.

Building trust with the participating children involves recognizing and valuing their interests and concerns, being sincere, reliable, and honest about what we can and cannot do. This involves engaging in structured, semi-structured, or unstructured activities before your main engagement. During these activities the designer/researcher can adjust their role based on the situation and the needs of the children in their spaces. 

Identifying settings where the child already feels freedom/comfort in expressing themselves is crucial for their engagement. A 'setting' can include a particular physical environment/location or a particular peer or an adult who creates that supportive environment for the child - wherever they may be. By collaborating with parents and teachers, you can identify these settings for each child. 

## Suggestions

### Assisting Teachers

Offer your assistance to teachers during a couple of classes, and engage alongside the children. Your presence helps the children become more comfortable with you over time.

### Shadowing Classes

Request permission to shadow a class for a week or several days. This extended interaction allows the children to get used to your presence and feel more relaxed.

### Recognizing the child’s preferred modes of communication

Some children prefer alternative modes of communication to speech, be it touch, AAC, picture cards, or even gestures. Get to know the child’s preferred modes of communication and set aside time to explicitly agree on the modes that they use. For example, understanding how they express yes/no, or how they signal agreement, discomfort, not understanding, tiredness, pain, etc.

### Sharing welcome videos or pictures

Prepare a short video, or a series of picture cards that feature you and any other facilitators to introduce yourselves and share that you will be meeting them soon to work on a cool project. Sharing social stories with children ahead of time can also help them better prepare for the engagement. 

### Getting to know daily routines

Collaborate with the family in getting to know the children’s daily routines. Knowledge of the family’s activities will help you understand the child’s schedule, which you could even reference when communicating with the child. 

### Being present with the children

Take some time to show your materials—prototypes, cameras, toys—to the child and let them explore these items. Allowing the child to know your materials will help them feel safe with unfamiliar items and activities to come.
