src/collections/guides/managing-unexpected-situations.md, before:

---
title: Managing unexpected situations
date: 2024-03-18T14:16:48.944Z
order: 4
category: doing
description: "Collaborative activities with children can lead to unexpected
  behaviors, so it's important to understand triggers and handle situations with
  support. "
overviewSection: Collaborative activities with children can lead to unexpected
  behaviors, so it's important to understand triggers and handle situations with
  support. Remember not to take on classroom management responsibilities.
  Provide space and time for children to ease into activities and collaborate
  with teachers or caregivers for independent leadership. Adjust group dynamics
  if tensions arise and ensure safety in cases of aggressive behavior. Work with
  caregivers and educators to develop strategies for future sessions and seek
  mentorship for support in challenging situations.
---
## Description

It's important to recognize that every child is unique, and unexpected behaviors such as meltdowns, tantrums, or aggressive behavior can occur during collaborative activities with children. Several factors may lead to or trigger such behaviors, and it's crucial to be prepared to handle these situations in a supportive and understanding manner.

If you are conducting your engagements within a school, keep in mind that designers/researchers should not be asked or expected to have responsibility over teachers' classrooms, even temporarily. All schools maintain safety protocols and plans (usually available in binders in each classroom and in administrative offices).

## Suggestions

### Facilitator-Child Relationship

* Children may feel overwhelmed or uncomfortable during collaborative sessions for a variety of reasons. Providing enough space and time for them to ease into the activity can help.
* A child may not feel comfortable with a facilitator or the facilitation team. It's essential to respect their feelings and step away from the work session to avoid causing distress. Consider having a colleague continue the work to ensure the child's comfort and participation. 
* Collaboration with teachers, caregivers, or parents to lead the activities independently can help many children to feel more comfortable during collaborative activities and more freely and confidently express their creativity. 

### Group Dynamics and Peer Interaction

* Sometimes peers don’t feel comfortable around each other and some group dynamics can lead to tension or discomfort among children. Check with teachers to understand which pairings work best and whether certain children should work in groups or prefer individual activities.
* If the group dynamics are not working well, be proactive and offer switching groups or changing pairs. If necessary, change the format of activities to individual tasks to alleviate any peer-related pressures.

### Managing Aggressive Behavior

* In cases where aggressive behavior arises, ensure the safety and well-being of all participants. 
* If necessary, remove the child from the immediate group setting to a designated calming space, allowing them time to de-escalate before rejoining the workshop. 

### Managing Distress and Seeking Support

* Collaborate with caregivers and educators to understand potential triggers for the behavior and develop strategies for future sessions.
* Be aware of your distress protocol and if necessary, consider stopping the session and rescheduling it to another time that better suits your participant’s comfort level.
* Identify a mentor, for example a supervisor who you can talk to about any challenging situation you may have encountered to have support.

Commit message:

chore(cms): update "src/collections/guides/managing-unexpected-situations.md" (#92)
Automatically generated. Merged on Decap CMS.

src/collections/guides/managing-unexpected-situations.md, after:

---
title: Managing unexpected situations
date: 2024-03-18T14:16:48.944Z
order: 4
category: doing
description: "Collaborative activities with children can lead to unexpected
  behaviors, so it's important to understand triggers and handle situations with
  support. "
overviewSection: Collaborative activities with children can lead to unexpected
  behaviors, so it's important to understand triggers and handle situations with
  support. Remember not to take on classroom management responsibilities.
  Provide space and time for children to ease into activities and collaborate
  with teachers or caregivers for independent leadership. Adjust group dynamics
  if tensions arise and ensure safety in cases of aggressive behavior. Work with
  caregivers and educators to develop strategies for future sessions and seek
  mentorship for support in challenging situations.
exampleSection: >-
  There have been several occasions during our engagement with children where we
  had to devise strategies to manage unexpected behaviors. For example, in one
  instance, a participant exhibited physical aggression towards a facilitator
  and attempted to hit them. The facilitator promptly alerted the team, and the
  teacher recommended that the facilitator leave the room, allowing others to
  continue with the activities. 


  Additionally, we encountered situations where a child had a tantrum during a session. In such cases, we sought support from teachers and caregivers. They often relocated the child to a calming space, providing calming toys and fidgets. Once the child calmed down, they returned to the session. If necessary, alternative activities were provided outside the session. 


  We have also encountered situations where the child has been overstimulated and engaging in destructive behavior such as hitting furniture, throwing toys, and other items at participants and the facilitation team. In such cases, the safety of all participants and the team is the highest priority. Facilitators worked with teachers and center supervisors to ensure no one is hurt and then they have tried to calm the child down.
---
## Description

It's important to recognize that every child is unique, and unexpected behaviors such as meltdowns, tantrums, or aggressive behavior can occur during collaborative activities with children. Several factors may lead to or trigger such behaviors, and it's crucial to be prepared to handle these situations in a supportive and understanding manner.

If you are conducting your engagements within a school, keep in mind that designers/researchers should not be asked or expected to have responsibility over teachers' classrooms, even temporarily. All schools maintain safety protocols and plans (usually available in binders in each classroom and in administrative offices).

## Suggestions

### Facilitator-Child Relationship

* Children may feel overwhelmed or uncomfortable during collaborative sessions for a variety of reasons. Providing enough space and time for them to ease into the activity can help.
* A child may not feel comfortable with a facilitator or the facilitation team. It's essential to respect their feelings and step away from the work session to avoid causing distress. Consider having a colleague continue the work to ensure the child's comfort and participation. 
* Collaboration with teachers, caregivers, or parents to lead the activities independently can help many children to feel more comfortable during collaborative activities and more freely and confidently express their creativity. 

### Group Dynamics and Peer Interaction

* Sometimes peers don’t feel comfortable around each other and some group dynamics can lead to tension or discomfort among children. Check with teachers to understand which pairings work best and whether certain children should work in groups or prefer individual activities.
* If the group dynamics are not working well, be proactive and offer switching groups or changing pairs. If necessary, change the format of activities to individual tasks to alleviate any peer-related pressures.

### Managing Aggressive Behavior

* In cases where aggressive behavior arises, ensure the safety and well-being of all participants. 
* If necessary, remove the child from the immediate group setting to a designated calming space, allowing them time to de-escalate before rejoining the workshop. 

### Managing Distress and Seeking Support

* Collaborate with caregivers and educators to understand potential triggers for the behavior and develop strategies for future sessions.
* Be aware of your distress protocol and if necessary, consider stopping the session and rescheduling it to another time that better suits your participant’s comfort level.
* Identify a mentor, for example a supervisor who you can talk to about any challenging situation you may have encountered to have support.
