src/collections/guides/modeling-the-activities.md, before:

---
title: Modeling the activities
date: 2024-03-21T14:36:26.804Z
order: 6
category: doing
description: Modeling an activity is a powerful way to ensure children fully
  understand the collaborative tasks, the expectations and objectives of the
  activity, and can actively engage in the process.
overviewSection: Modeling activities is an effective way to help children grasp
  collaborative tasks. Simplify instructions, utilize visual aids, and break
  down complex steps into manageable tasks. Offer multiple examples for
  inspiration, encourage questions, and set realistic goals. Reusing
  documentation from previous sessions can aid in learning and development.
---
## Description

Modeling an activity is a powerful way to ensure that children fully understand the collaborative tasks, expectations, and objectives involved. It provides them with a starting point and helps them feel more comfortable engaging in the activity. Setting realistic goals that are achievable and meaningful for the needs and pace of the children you are working with can assist you in designing your collaborative activities and planning instructional materials.

## Suggestions

### Simplify Instructions

* As you design activities, aim to simplify complex concepts and instructions. Use clear and concise language that is easily understood by the participants. Avoid jargon or technical terms that may be unfamiliar to kids.
* If an activity involves several complex steps, break them down into smaller, manageable tasks and manageable instructions. For example, include instructions with one or two key words like 'what do you think about X.'. This approach makes the overall process less overwhelming and enables participants to focus on one aspect at a time.

### Offer Examples and Visual Aids

* Utilize visual aids, such as diagrams, images, or videos, or social stories to demonstrate the activity. Visual representations can provide additional clarity and help participants better comprehend the task at hand. Consider using picture-based communication systems if some participants rely on them.
* If the activity involves exploration and creativity, offer multiple examples to inspire participants. Presenting diverse possibilities can help children understand the goals of the activity and come up with unique contributions.
* If applicable, reuse any documentation from previous sessions in upcoming ones. This can aid students in recognizing themselves in learning processes, design development, and more.

### Model Activities Step-by-Step

* Model the activity step-by-step, demonstrating each stage of the process. Allow participants to observe and understand how to proceed before asking them to engage in the activity themselves.
* During the modeling phase, encourage participants to ask questions or seek clarification. This fosters open communication and ensures that any doubts or uncertainties are addressed before proceeding.

Commit message:

chore(cms): update "src/collections/guides/modeling-the-activities.md" (#97)
Automatically generated. Merged on Decap CMS.

src/collections/guides/modeling-the-activities.md, after:

---
title: Modeling the activities
date: 2024-03-21T14:36:26.804Z
order: 6
category: doing
description: Modeling an activity is a powerful way to ensure children fully
  understand the collaborative tasks, the expectations and objectives of the
  activity, and can actively engage in the process.
metaImage: /assets/uploads/beverley2_hud9a577a21815e8ebf73a5735cc535c12_3851505_1000x0_resize_box_2.png
metaImageAlt: facilitator is modeling an activity for a student
overviewSection: Modeling activities is an effective way to help children grasp
  collaborative tasks. Simplify instructions, utilize visual aids, and break
  down complex steps into manageable tasks. Offer multiple examples for
  inspiration, encourage questions, and set realistic goals. Reusing
  documentation from previous sessions can aid in learning and development.
exampleSection: >-
  ![Woman reading a book for a group of children on mobility devices and
  projecting the page on the screen. ](/assets/uploads/susie-reading.jpg
  "Reading picture books before the start of an activity to help set the context
  for the collaborative tasks")


  In our [Weavly](https://weavly.org/) project collaborative sessions, we always began with an activity to set the context and engage the children with the day's plans. This involved various approaches like watching [videos](https://weavly.org/learn/resources/coding-videos-for-kids/), reading [books](https://weavly.org/learn/resources/picture-book-list/), or playing warm-up games together.


  ![Adult is moving on a grid based on a student instructions](/assets/uploads/human-robot.jpg "Modeling digital activities in the real world to help students understand the tasks")


  Before introducing coding concepts or challenges, we began with real-world items like toys or robots that the children were familiar with. Using these props as models, we demonstrated the activity they would later replicate in the digital space. This approach bridged the gap between the physical and digital environments, making it easier for them to follow instructions. For instance, we might lay out a grid on the floor and ask the students to navigate from point A to B using directional cards, mirroring how they would later navigate their on-screen character in the [Weavly coding environment](https://create.weavly.org).
---
## Description

Modeling an activity is a powerful way to ensure that children fully understand the collaborative tasks, expectations, and objectives involved. It provides them with a starting point and helps them feel more comfortable engaging in the activity. Setting realistic goals that are achievable and meaningful for the needs and pace of the children you are working with can assist you in designing your collaborative activities and planning instructional materials.

## Suggestions

### Simplify Instructions

* As you design activities, aim to simplify complex concepts and instructions. Use clear and concise language that is easily understood by the participants. Avoid jargon or technical terms that may be unfamiliar to kids.
* If an activity involves several complex steps, break them down into smaller, manageable tasks and manageable instructions. For example, include instructions with one or two key words like 'what do you think about X.'. This approach makes the overall process less overwhelming and enables participants to focus on one aspect at a time.

### Offer Examples and Visual Aids

* Utilize visual aids, such as diagrams, images, or videos, or social stories to demonstrate the activity. Visual representations can provide additional clarity and help participants better comprehend the task at hand. Consider using picture-based communication systems if some participants rely on them.
* If the activity involves exploration and creativity, offer multiple examples to inspire participants. Presenting diverse possibilities can help children understand the goals of the activity and come up with unique contributions.
* If applicable, reuse any documentation from previous sessions in upcoming ones. This can aid students in recognizing themselves in learning processes, design development, and more.

### Model Activities Step-by-Step

* Model the activity step-by-step, demonstrating each stage of the process. Allow participants to observe and understand how to proceed before asking them to engage in the activity themselves.
* During the modeling phase, encourage participants to ask questions or seek clarification. This fosters open communication and ensures that any doubts or uncertainties are addressed before proceeding.
