src/collections/guides/preparing-the-co-design-activities.md, before:

---
title: Preparing the co-design activities
date: 2024-02-28T17:09:04.480Z
order: 7
category: planning
description: Thoughtfully planned collaborative activities provide a starting
  point for exploration and innovation.
overviewSection: For successful co-design with children with disabilities, start
  with tangible elements like basic prototypes. Plan activities with a
  scaffolded approach, gradually building on their capabilities. Leave room for
  creativity by involving them in the development process. Adapt communication
  for those with verbal challenges, use multi-sensory elements, and consider
  varied approaches for diverse needs. Integrate symbol-based communication and
  conduct dry runs for feedback. Be mindful of framing questions to gain deeper
  insights into the child's perspective and preferences.
exampleSection: >-
  

  ![Projecting different elements on the screen with an old slide projector](/assets/uploads/screenshot-2024-03-05-at-2.33.30-pm.png "Exploring cause an effect by placing different physical items on a slide projector and experincing their projection on the screen.")


  The [Weavly](https://weavly.org/) project spanned several years, with varying activities in each phase. In the initial phases, when the coding environment hadn't yet developed, we used various tools to engage children in the digital space, including old slide projectors and interactions with PowerPoint slides on a smart board to understand the child-digital environment interaction.


  ![Student using Weavly simple prototype to build a program to direct robots on the floor.](/assets/uploads/design-activity_hua7f35ba46080e3314a834735ed95f389_2828843_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg "Student using early prototypes of Weavly with basic functionality to control robots and draw shapes with them.")


  As the project progressed, we developed a simple prototype with basic functionality, and our activities revolved around how this basic tool is used and how we can expand it to something kids liked getting engaged with. This basic prototype helped us communicate the goal and purpose of the project with children and their teachers. Although the prototype was working, kids noticed the product was not done yet, and there was still a lot of room for new ideas.


  ![Facilitator and the student are working together using physical and digital tools to explore different ideas. ](/assets/uploads/20220407_102543.jpg "Facilitator and a student are using both physical direction blocks and the Weavly coding environment to explore different coding challenges.")


  In later phases, with a more polished prototype, our activities became more advanced. We planned activities to onboard children, using both analog and digital methods, progressing from physical movement blocks to screen-based coding challenges.


  ![child in a mobility device with a foam board and sticky notes](/assets/uploads/co-design-cole_hud2dd3cae58f915329efd5a79431606a5_2327876_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg "The planned drawing activity on a foam board was inaccessible for the student.")


  Despite our planning, some activities were inaccessible at times. For instance, a planned large board for drawing an imaginary interface didn't consider a child who experienced difficulty holding a marker. We also learned that offering a large collection of options was challenging for some kids, leading us to prefer offering a smaller set of items for choice, preferably a set of two options at a time.
---
## Description

The success of a co-design process relies on creating engaging and accessible activities that enable children with disabilities to express their creativity and contribute meaningfully. Well-designed activities offer children a starting point to build upon and explore new directions. 

## Suggestions

### Start with tangible elements

Engaging kids in purely conceptual activities with no tangible elements might be challenging, particularly for those with limited verbal communication. Providing a starting point, such as a basic prototype or model is critical to encourage engagement. Using low fidelity prototypes such as paper or clay prototypes, gives your team the flexibility to change the proposed design/idea if children are not interested or engaged.

### Plan a scaffolded approach

Work with the parents and teachers to to develop a sense of children’s capabilities: what they can do now, what they are almost capable of doing, and what they are not yet ready to do – and design activities that strike a balance between the first two and are also responsive to unique and variable skills. Be adaptive and have a few possibilities for subsequent stages of the scaffold to help address a variety of engagement needs and child interests. This gradual progression helps children build their ideas with support and confidence. 

### Leave room for creativity

Don’t bring a polished or final solution to them and ask for their feedback, involve them in the gradual creation and development process of an idea. Even your co-design material, such as worksheets can look like an unfinished sketch or work in progress model to encourage kids’ participation. 

### Address communication challenges

For children who may face challenges in verbal communication, adapt your questions and activities accordingly. Break down complex questions into simpler ones and present a limited set of options (usually two) for them to respond to. Observe their reactions and choices to better understand their preferences.

### Multi-sensory activities

Incorporate multi-sensory elements into activities to allow kids to express their ideas in diverse ways. Use audio, sound, light, and texture to stimulate different senses and facilitate communication. For those who may have difficulty directly manipulating objects, provide printed images or objects they can use to communicate their choices.

### Consider a varied approach

if you are working with a group of children that each has unique needs and preferences, actively consider what methods are the easiest for each child to take part in. This could mean taking a varied approach across individual children, for example offering audio cues to one child while creating a tactile set of options for another one. 

### Symbol-based communication

Consider using symbol-based communication systems, such as pictographs or other visual aids, to offer alternative means of expression and gather responses from children with specific needs.

### Dry run and feedback

If possible, rehearse the activities with one or more children or their teachers before the collaborative event. This practice allows you to fine-tune your approach and identify potential improvements in the interaction process. 

### Be mindful of framing your questions

The language and questions you use may impact the results you get. For example, if we only ever asked whether a child "likes" something, we may only gain a very narrow sense of what the child is really thinking about a prototype. Explore ways to ask questions during the interaction that are focused on the child's perspective and how they see the world, what they would do with a design prototype, what makes them excited about it, and what doesn't interest them at all, or how they would do it differently.

Commit message:

chore(cms): update "src/collections/guides/preparing-the-co-design-activities.md" (#111)
Automatically generated. Merged on Decap CMS.

src/collections/guides/preparing-the-co-design-activities.md, after:

---
title: Preparing the co-design activities
date: 2024-02-28T17:09:04.480Z
order: 7
category: planning
description: Thoughtfully planned collaborative activities provide a starting
  point for exploration and innovation.
metaImage: /assets/uploads/img_9020-1-.jpg
metaImageAlt: "Kids sitting on the floor around a board and trying to design a
  customized grid on this board with paint and other craft materials. "
overviewSection: For successful co-design with children with disabilities, start
  with tangible elements like basic prototypes. Plan activities with a
  scaffolded approach, gradually building on their capabilities. Leave room for
  creativity by involving them in the development process. Adapt communication
  for those with verbal challenges, use multi-sensory elements, and consider
  varied approaches for diverse needs. Integrate symbol-based communication and
  conduct dry runs for feedback. Be mindful of framing questions to gain deeper
  insights into the child's perspective and preferences.
exampleSection: >-
  ![Projecting different elements on the screen with an old slide
  projector](/assets/uploads/screenshot-2024-03-05-at-2.33.30-pm.png "Exploring
  cause an effect by placing different physical items on a slide projector and
  experincing their projection on the screen.")


  The [Weavly](https://weavly.org/) project spanned several years, with varying activities in each phase. In the initial phases, when the coding environment hadn't yet developed, we used various tools to engage children in the digital space, including old slide projectors and interactions with PowerPoint slides on a smart board to understand the child-digital environment interaction and explore foundational concepts such as how they perceive cause an effect.


  ![Student using Weavly simple prototype to build a program to direct robots on the floor.](/assets/uploads/design-activity_hua7f35ba46080e3314a834735ed95f389_2828843_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg "Student using early prototypes of Weavly with basic functionality to control robots and draw shapes with them.")


  As the project progressed, we developed a simple prototype with basic functionality, and our activities revolved around how this basic tool is used and how we can expand it to something kids liked getting engaged with. This basic prototype helped us communicate the goal and purpose of the project with children and their teachers. Although the prototype was working, kids noticed the product was not done yet, and there was still a lot of room for new ideas.


  ![Facilitator and the student are working together using physical and digital tools to explore different ideas. ](/assets/uploads/20220407_102543.jpg "Facilitator and a student are using both physical direction blocks and the Weavly coding environment to explore different coding challenges.")


  In later phases, with a more polished prototype, our activities became more advanced. We planned activities to onboard children, using both analog and digital methods, progressing from physical movement blocks to screen-based coding challenges.


  ![child in a mobility device with a foam board and sticky notes](/assets/uploads/co-design-cole_hud2dd3cae58f915329efd5a79431606a5_2327876_1000x0_resize_q75_box.jpg "The planned drawing activity on a foam board was inaccessible for the student.")


  Despite our planning, some activities were inaccessible at times. For instance, a planned large board for drawing an imaginary interface didn't consider a child who experienced difficulty holding a marker. We also learned that offering a large collection of options was challenging for some kids, leading us to prefer offering a smaller set of items for choice, preferably a set of two options at a time.
---
## Description

The success of a co-design process relies on creating engaging and accessible activities that enable children with disabilities to express their creativity and contribute meaningfully. Well-designed activities offer children a starting point to build upon and explore new directions. 

## Suggestions

### Start with tangible elements

Engaging kids in purely conceptual activities with no tangible elements might be challenging, particularly for those with limited verbal communication. Providing a starting point, such as a basic prototype or model is critical to encourage engagement. Using low fidelity prototypes such as paper or clay prototypes, gives your team the flexibility to change the proposed design/idea if children are not interested or engaged.

### Plan a scaffolded approach

Work with the parents and teachers to to develop a sense of children’s capabilities: what they can do now, what they are almost capable of doing, and what they are not yet ready to do – and design activities that strike a balance between the first two and are also responsive to unique and variable skills. Be adaptive and have a few possibilities for subsequent stages of the scaffold to help address a variety of engagement needs and child interests. This gradual progression helps children build their ideas with support and confidence. 

### Leave room for creativity

Don’t bring a polished or final solution to them and ask for their feedback, involve them in the gradual creation and development process of an idea. Even your co-design material, such as worksheets can look like an unfinished sketch or work in progress model to encourage kids’ participation. 

### Address communication challenges

For children who may face challenges in verbal communication, adapt your questions and activities accordingly. Break down complex questions into simpler ones and present a limited set of options (usually two) for them to respond to. Observe their reactions and choices to better understand their preferences.

### Multi-sensory activities

Incorporate multi-sensory elements into activities to allow kids to express their ideas in diverse ways. Use audio, sound, light, and texture to stimulate different senses and facilitate communication. For those who may have difficulty directly manipulating objects, provide printed images or objects they can use to communicate their choices.

### Consider a varied approach

if you are working with a group of children that each has unique needs and preferences, actively consider what methods are the easiest for each child to take part in. This could mean taking a varied approach across individual children, for example offering audio cues to one child while creating a tactile set of options for another one. 

### Symbol-based communication

Consider using symbol-based communication systems, such as pictographs or other visual aids, to offer alternative means of expression and gather responses from children with specific needs.

### Dry run and feedback

If possible, rehearse the activities with one or more children or their teachers before the collaborative event. This practice allows you to fine-tune your approach and identify potential improvements in the interaction process. 

### Be mindful of framing your questions

The language and questions you use may impact the results you get. For example, if we only ever asked whether a child "likes" something, we may only gain a very narrow sense of what the child is really thinking about a prototype. Explore ways to ask questions during the interaction that are focused on the child's perspective and how they see the world, what they would do with a design prototype, what makes them excited about it, and what doesn't interest them at all, or how they would do it differently.
